[Music]
so we've all had moments where it feels
like we'll live or die by our internet
connection whether it's a client who
needs a file right away or you need to
fix your fantasy lineup because your
star player got hurt two minutes before
a game time the Wi-Fi connection in your
home will either save or ruin your day
and everything from your fridge to
holiday decorations can contribute to a
lousy connection let's have a look at
seven of these common connection killers
and how you can make sure all your
bright side watching experiences are
buffer free first up the microwave if
you just popped a bag of popcorn in your
microwave to chow down while catching up
on your favorite series you may have to
wait until it's popped before hitting
that play button this is because both
your Wi-Fi signal and microwave oven
operate on the same frequency which is
2.4 gigahertz every microwave should be
properly shielded so it doesn't leak any
radiation but the fact is just about all
of them leak enough to cause
electromagnetic or radio frequency RF
interference now before you freak out
about your microwave leaking radiation
rest assured these frequencies are
nowhere close to the ionizing radiation
that can be harmful to people or pets
it's more like a radio signal and yes
your Wi-Fi signal is a radio signal
although it's broadcasting at a higher
frequency than a traditional radio does
this interference at 2.4 gigahertz can
be caused by devices like your router
baby monitors cordless landline phones
and just about any Bluetooth device you
can think of less common sources of the
same interference can come from toaster
ovens heating pads electric blankets
electric bug zappers and touch
controlled lighting the best fix for
this is to use Wi-Fi equipment that uses
the 5 gigahertz frequency on the 802.11
n Network your router may also have a
setting for auto channel but that's
designed to separate multiple Wi-Fi
signals and may not work as well as
simply using a more
modern router second on the list drones
and other remote control toys many of
these toys talk to the remote you're
using on that 2.4 gigahertz frequency I
just told you about not all models will
cause this interference but more
powerful and long-range devices can't
the fix for this in addition to having
an updated router is just don't play
with your drone while streaming stranger
things at the same time ezpz number
three holiday or decorative lights yep
the same string lights you use on your
Christmas tree or put around the home
for a cool party could be the reason you
can't stream that awesome party song
playlist you spent hours and hours on
these lights use special sparkling chips
that will generate a magnetic field that
interacts with various radio frequencies
being broadcast by your router so you
don't want to ruin the mood you've just
created with your cool lights so the
best fix for this one is to just try and
keep your router as far from the lights
as you can
fourth up the fridge gee is there any
kitchen appliance that won't mess up my
internet sure doesn't seem like it an
overall rule is that electrical
appliances that use pipes and circulate
water are not so nice to your Wi-Fi
signal this is because water has the
ability to retain energy from wireless
waves which can mess up your connection
so yeah that means your clothes washer
and dishwasher too if you're having a
tough time refreshing your social media
feed in the kitchen or laundry room now
you know why five mirrors
mirror mirror on the wall who has the
most selfie likes of them all well it's
not me good luck trying to find out if
your router is behind a mirror the same
reflective material that helps us check
our hair also reflects the signal coming
from the router as a result it can also
act as a kind of shield and cause the
signal to bounce off of it when you have
a mirror near the router
it can make the signal seem slow and
unstable so probably best not to put
your router in the bathroom either
number six brick and stone walls so this
won't won't half as simple of a fix
because chances are if your house or
apartment has brick or stone walls
they're probably there for a reason
you know like to make the building a
building the most common building
materials that can keep you from having
a reliable internet connection our
marble cement concrete plaster and as I
already mentioned brick this is why in
two-story houses someone will usually
have an extremely weak connection on one
of the floors depending on which one
your router is on one way to help avoid
this is to place your router in a more
open area of your home away from any
walls at all this is an always ideal but
can be a solution if the materials your
home is built with are keeping you from
having a strong connection and finally
lucky number seven metal furniture and
surfaces you may have more of this
around than you think metal fixtures
utility shelves and the like can all
give your Wi-Fi a rough time metal is a
conductor but not the kind like Leonard
Bernstein so it absorbs electricity and
as you recall a Wi-Fi signal is made of
radio and electromagnetic waves so any
metal surface or object in your home
keeps the waves from getting around the
house for the best signal possible make
sure your router isn't placed on a metal
shelf or is blocked by any metal
furniture now every one set up at home
is different so what if you go through
this list and you still have crummy
Wi-Fi here's a quick rundown of tips
that will definitely help update your
wireless routers firmware sometimes all
it takes is giving your router an update
if you didn't know the firmware is
similar to software like the operating
system on your phone or computer that is
permanently stored in a piece of
hardware like your router
unlike your phone or computer however
when there's an update available you
don't get that annoying notification
letting you know most modern routers
still make this process pretty easy
requiring a little more than logging
into the routers admin screen and
clicking an update firmware button older
routers may require you to go to the
manufacturers website and download a
file you have to install from your
computer even if you aren't having
trouble with your Wi-Fi it's a good idea
to keep your router firmware up-to-date
for other performance improvements and
security patches proper router placement
I've already touched on this a little
but where you put your router can have
the biggest impact on the quality of the
signal you'd probably rather hide this
ugly box behind a bunch of books or
video games or in a cabinet but if
getting the best signal is your concern
this isn't a great idea an open area is
ideal if the router has adjustable
antennas make them vertical in order to
protect the best coverage if you can
place it higher up in your space that
helps to finally a quick App Store
search will lead you to a variety of
tools that will help to see your network
coverage and show the weekend strong
points in your network right on your
phone or tablet check the frequency
remember all that talk about signals and
how some appliances like your microwave
or on the same frequency as one of the
most common Wi-Fi bans most routers will
let you change this in the admin
settings if you have a dual band router
it's possible that the other frequency
five gigahertz isn't turned on so take a
few minutes to check and make sure you
have this option activated get a Wi-Fi
extender if you need to cover a lot of
space this may be your best option
the fact is your router can only cover
so much space and if you have more than
it can reach or have a lot of
unavoidable barriers like those brick
walls what can you do range extenders
seems similar to a regular router
but they don't work the say first they
use the existing Wi-Fi signal from your
main router and just rebroadcast it as
far as how your router understands it it
just looked like another device on the
network like your laptop or tablet even
though it isn't the same as a router you
still need to consider the same rules
for deciding where to put it you want to
be sure it's close enough to the router
that it gets a good signal but close
enough to where the signal gets weak to
extend the signal an extended signal
won't be as good or fast as the original
but it'll surely enable you to get that
file to your boss and update your
fantasy sports lineup in the nick of
time so how about you when was the most
inconvenient time you lost a Wi-Fi
connection let me know down in the
comments if you learn something new
today then give this video a like and
share with a friend but hey don't pack
up your router in your old kit bag and
smile smile smile just yet we have over
2000 cool videos for you to check out
all you have to do is choose the left or
right video click on it and enjoy stay
on the bright side of life